WASHINGTON — Stellar pitching kept the Mets afloat in the first half of last season despite their offensive woes. But they cannot produce an encore of their pennant-winning season if their lineup keeps floundering while their pitching is nicked, bruised and stretched thin.“We were going to ride our pitching,” Manager Terry Collins said before Wednesday’s game. “But we’re not riding it right now. We’ve got as many problems with our pitching as we do anything.”Wednesday’s 4-2 loss to the Washington Nationals was cruel for the already-limping Mets. Pitching in Steven Matz’s place, the spot starter Logan Verrett allowed two runs over five innings. But even that was too large a deficit for the Mets’ lineup to overcome against Max Scherzer, the Nationals’ starter.“We’re not even giving ourselves chances,” Collins said, adding later, “We just can’t give our pitchers any room to work.”The Mets did not score until the ninth inning, when a last-gasp two-run homer by James Loney off Nationals reliever Shawn Kelley snapped a streak of 23 scoreless innings for the team.The Mets were swept in the three-game series and fell six games behind the Nationals in the National League East. Of late, the Mets have looked worse than their 40-37 record.“I don’t think we’ve played half our games yet this year,” right fielder Curtis Granderson said. “There’s still a lot of things left that can and hopefully will happen.”Scherzer toyed with the Mets, who were initially without Granderson after he was scratched from the lineup with lingering calf tightness. Even though Granderson has been inconsistent this season, he had hit well against Scherzer in the past. Alejandro De Aza, who entered the game with a .165 average, started in right field instead because Collins said the team had few options.After Scherzer gave up a single to Asdrubal Cabrera and walked Loney in the second inning, he retired the next 18 batters, until an eighth-inning single by Brandon Nimmo.The Mets struggled again with runners on base. After Nimmo and the pinch-hitting Granderson singled in the eighth, pinch-hitter Travis d’Arnaud grounded out, and De Aza struck out.“If they keep adding pressure on themselves, they’re going to continue to struggle,” Collins said. “That’s one of the things we try to make sure they have to understand: They have to be themselves.”General Manager Sandy Alderson, Collins and the coaching staff have met about the offense and discussed the odd dynamics: Some players are performing at or better than their career averages, but the lineup as a whole has struggled immensely, especially with runners in scoring position.“We’re just not driving in any runs,” Collins said. “That’s been the frustrating part. It’s not that we’re striking out. We’re popping up, or a double-play ball.”The Mets have a power-hitting team, so asking players to bunt or hit and run would go against their strengths.“When you start to change a team that’s built one way and start to make them do something different, you’re going to get your butt beat,” Collins said.Earlier in the season, the Mets appeared like an all-or-nothing, home-run-driven team. Although they hit only .211 as a team in May, they smashed 40 home runs. They have a higher average in June, but they have hit only 24 homers, and the inconsistent offense has put a strain on the pitching staff.In the second inning, Verrett gave up a solo home run to the ex-Met Daniel Murphy. Collins wanted to limit the workloads of Addison Reed and Jeurys Familia, so he turned to reliever Sean Gilmartin in the eighth. Gilmartin gave up a two-run homer to Murphy, who has hit .429 (15 for 35) with four home runs against the Mets this season, his first since leaving the team.“I felt like I kept us in the game and gave us a chance to come back and win it,” Verrett said. “I wish that I wouldn’t have given up the two runs.”Verrett was put in this position because of the effects of bone spurs on the Mets’ rotation. The team asked Verrett to start Wednesday and gave Matz an extra day of rest after he received anti-inflammatory medication for the large bone spur in his left elbow. He will try to pitch through it.Noah Syndergaard has a smaller and less intrusive bone spur in the back of his right elbow.“As long as I’m staying on my anti-inflammatories and my mechanics are on point, I’m able to go out there every five days and compete,” Syndergaard said.For the Mets, the immediate road ahead will be even tougher. Matz was expected to pitch Thursday against the Chicago Cubs, one of the best teams in baseball this season.
